New topic: threshold signature (#555)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _topics/en/threshold-signature.md

optech_mentions:
  - title: "Talk summary: The quest for practical threshold Schnorr signatures"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/10/16/#the-quest-for-practical-threshold-schnorr-signatures

  - title: Paper published about ECDSA threshold signatures
    url: /en/newsletters/2018/10/23/#two-papers-published-on-fast-multiparty-ecdsa

  - title: Pairing-based threshold signatures with signer auditability
    url: /en/newsletters/2018/10/09/#compact-multi-signatures-for-smaller-blockchains

  - title: Discussion about digital signatures schemes, including threshold signatures
    url: /en/newsletters/2020/07/01/#schnorr-signatures-and-multisignatures

  - title: "Talk summary: Secure Protocols on bip-taproot / threshold sigs with MuSig"
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/06/19/#secure-protocols-on-bip-taproot

  - title: Cryptographic Vulnerabilities in Threshold Wallets
    url: /en/newsletters/2019/06/19/#cryptographic-vulnerabilities-in-threshold-wallets

## Optional.  Same format as "primary_sources" above
see_also:
  - title: Multisignature
    link: topic multisignature

## Required.  Use Markdown formatting.  Only one paragraph.  No links allowed.
## Should be less than 500 characters

> excerpt: >

Author: Is this a comment on the excerpt only, or the whole description?

(The answer is that, of course it's possible; I want to find how much needs to be rewritten.)

> excerpt: >

Reviewer: Maybe just for the excerpt.

>   **Threshold signatures** are digital signatures that may have been

Author: Our formatting requires the introduction start with bold text.  (We can change that if it's a significant impediment.)

>   **Threshold signatures** are digital signatures that may have been

Reviewer: Not a significant impediment, but equally I don't think we should restrict ourselves to starting the excerpt with the topic name if we think the definition would be clearer without that restriction.

  created by a subset of the private keys that could have created a
  equivalent multisignature.  Like a multisignature, a threshold
  signature can be verified using only a single public key and a single
  signature.
---
Different algorithms exist for creating threshold signatures, but
perhaps the simplest of these is a slight extension of a typical
algorithm for creating a [multisignature][topic multisignature].  This
is easiest explained with an example: five participants want to receive
funds that can be spent by any three of them.  They cooperate to create
an ordinary multisignature public key for receiving the funds, then they

> each take the extra step of deriving four [secret shares][vss] from their

Author: I'm not completely sure, but I'm highly confident that it needs to be some type of verifiable secret sharing or you're at risk of one of the other participants giving you an unreconstructable share.

> each take the extra step of deriving four [secret shares][vss] from their

Reviewer: seems reasonable

each take the extra step of deriving two [secret shares][vss] from their
private key---one share for each of the other two participants.  The
shares are created so that any two shares can reconstitute the private
key that created it.  Each participant gives a different one of their
secret shares to each other participant, so each participant ends up
having to store their own private key plus one share for each other
participant.  Each participant is then able to verify that the shares
they received were correctly derived (i.e. not fake) and are unique from
the shares received by the other participants.

> Later, participants A and B decide they want to create a signature
> even though the participant C isn't participating.  A and B

Reviewer: Perhaps remove the repeated 'participants' here:

```suggestion
Later, A and B decide they want to create a signature
even though C isn't participating.  A and B
```

(would require introducing A, B and C further up)

share with each other the two shares they each have for C.  This

> allows them to reconstitute private keys.  A and B also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows them to reconstitute C's private key.  A and B also
```
